>> Kyle: So now let's look at some code.
And here's where I'm gonna
start to diagram some stuff.
And don't worry about
copying this diagram because
this diagram shows up in your
slides a little bit later.
So don't worry about copying this down.
What I wanna do is show you
how each line of this code
conceptually gets laid
out in a diagram way.
So I'm gonna go line by line through
the code and draw it in a diagram form.
But don't worry, the finished diagram
which will look a lot better than my white
boarding skills, that finished diagram
is in your slides in a few slides, okay?
To first begin to diagram this, I need to
address that there's a line 0 environment.
There's some stuff that exists
before our program even runs.
And that part I'm going to draw a dotted
line and draw some stuff above it.
So let me draw a dotted line
here across the top, and
above this dotted line I want to
create the line 0 environment.
I wanna talk about what exists
before our program runs.
You remember earlier in the workshop
we talked about a capital O Object.
And I'm gonna represent functions,
I'm sorry a capital O Object function.
I'm gonna represent functions
as circles in this diagram, so
here's this capital O Object function.
>> Kyle: That's the capital
O Object function.
It exists before our program runs.
There's another entity that exists.
>> Kyle: I'm gonna represent
it as the square or rectangle,
whatever you wanna call it,
it's an object.
It's not a function it's an object.
So functions will be circles,
objects will be squares/rectangles.
Now this thing is a really
important entity in JavaScript, but
it does not have a good name.
Like the most important object in all of
JavaScript and we don't have a good name
for it, so we refer to it,
>> Kyle: Based
on the property that links to it.
>> Kyle: And in particular,
that property is called,
>> Kyle: .prototype.
>> Kyle: There's a property from
the Object function to this other object,
this really important thing that exists.
And because we don't have a good name for
it we like to refer to
it as object.prototype.
>> Kyle: Now on object.prototype
there's a bunch of really useful stuff,
stuff we've already seen, like two
string and value of and so forth, so
there's a bunch of really
useful contents on that object.
It's the most important
object in all of JavaScript.
But we don't have a good name for it,
so we refer to it as object.prototype.
Now here's one other entity here, or
actually not an entity, but a linkage.
It goes in the other direction.
>> Kyle: And that property has
a much more confusing name to it.
Confusing because it's gonna try to
convince you that there's something
there that isn't.
This property is referred
to as .constructor.
>> Kyle: Now that property name sure
does a really good job of implying
that the object was constructed
by the function, right?
Except it wasn't,
it was not constructed by the function,
but it sure looks like it was and
constructor seems to imply that it was.
Constructor seems to
imply that this function
has some kind of special relationship
to the thing, like was constructed by.
It doesn't,
this name constructor here is no more
meaningful in a real sense in JavaScript
than if they'd called it .foobar.
>> Kyle: But
because they called it .constructor,
it actually leads people to conclude
things that aren't actually true.
All right, that's our line 0 environment.
Now we get to line 1 of our code.
We have a foo function, so
we're gonna need a circle.
So line 1 creates a circle and
we label that circle Foo.
Line 1 is declared a function and
we made it and made a circle.
In addition, line 1 has done
something that's not obvious.
It's created another entity.
>> Kyle: It's created an object,
it's kind of an important object.
We don't really have a good name for
it, so
you can probably guess
where I'm going with this.
We're gonna refer to it by
the property that points to it.
There's a property that
points from there to there.
>> Kyle: And
guess what that property's called?
>> Speaker 2: .prototype.
>> Kyle: .prototype.
>> Kyle: So we don't have a good name for
this object, but
we just refer to it as foo.prototype.
Which is super inconvenient and weird,
but let's just go with it, okay?
There's another thing
that was created here.
>> Kyle: A property that points
back in the other direction.
I bet you can guess
what that one's called.
>> Speaker 2: Constructor.
>> Kyle: .constructor.
That has also no more meaning to it
than if they'd called it .foo bar.
Because this object was not
constructed by this function
even though it sort of implies
that's my constructor, okay?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Does this
happen on line 1 or line 8?
>> Kyle: This is all happening on line 1.
>> Speaker 2: So any function,
even if it's not a constructor function,
just like a regular function,
will have an object called prototype?
>> Kyle: Yep, exactly, this is all line 1.
As a matter of fact,
there's one other thing that line 1 does.
>> Kyle: There's a relationship between
that object and object.prototype.
There's a linkage between foo.prototype
and object.prototype, and
I haven't fully described what that
linkage is, but we'll come back to it.
>> Kyle: So that's line 1.
Now we move to line 4.
We'll come back to line 2 later.
We come to line 4.
And you'll notice that I just start
referencing that arbitrarily named,
weirdly named foo.prototype thing.
And what I do is I add a property
to it called identify.
You see that?
It actually doesn't matter that
it's a function in this case, so
I'm just gonna write identify-
>> Kyle: As the contents of that object.
We've added an identify to it.
>> Kyle: We'll skip over line 5.
Let's move to line 8,
that's where the fun really starts.
Somebody look up in your notes, and
read for me item by item, the four
things that happen when the new keyword
is put in front of a function call.
Because I'm gonna diagram those
four things as they happen.
What's the first thing that happens when
new is put in front of a function call?
>> Speaker 2: It creates a new object.
>> Kyle: It creates a brand new
empty object out of thin air.
What's the second thing that
happens when new is in front of it?
>> Speaker 3: The new object
gets linked to [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle: It gets linked to.
We haven't even described the link yet,
but let's draw it in.
>> Kyle: What's the third thing that
happens when new is put in front
of a function call?
>> Speaker 4: The newly created object
is passed into the function call as-
>> Kyle: Yes, it's passed into
the function as this.
So let's invoke the foo function and
call as it's this keyword,
this newly created object.
What do we do on line 2?
We're adding a me property to it, right?
So we're gonna put a me right here.
What's the fourth and
final thing that happens when new
shows up in front of a function call?
>> Speaker 5: This context
is implicitly returned.
>> Kyle: Because foo does
not return its own object,
we assume that you meant to
say return this on line 2.5.
So that object gets
returned back to line 8 and
gets assigned the name A1.
That's line 8.
Does anybody feel roughly comfortable
with how I diagrammed line 8?
So if you know line 8,
then I can just draw line 9 out.
>> Kyle: That's line 9.
Feeling okay so far?
Let's move to line 11.
On line 11,
I add another property directly to A2.
So I'm putting a speak right here.
>> Kyle: Now just looking at the diagram,
ignore the code for a minute, looking at
this diagram, would you expect on this
diagram to be able to say A1.speak?
Because when I say a2.speak
= when I assign something,
I'm putting it directly on the object,
all right?
That's a difference compared to what
we're about to see when we look at these
linkages.
I just wanna point out that assignment
here doesn't pay any attention to linkage.
It just puts it directly on whatever
object you tell it to put it on.
Okay, there's no relationship
between the two.
Now if I were to call
something like a1.constructor,
like I do on line 15,
does a1 have a constructor property on it?
A lot of people think that the a1 object
does in fact have a constructor property.
They think of that constructor
property as being sort of like a stamp
that tells you where the object came from.
But the diagram clearly shows
us that there is no such
constructor property on it.
So when we call a1.constructor,
we first inspect this object to ask
if it has a constructor property.
When we find out it does not
have a constructor property,
there is a default behavior built into
JavaScript which has been there all along.
You just might not have ever
heard it fully explained.
It is called the prototype chain.
What it will do is say,
okay, you're asking for
something that does not
exist on this object.
So what I'm going to do
is follow this linkage,
which is called the prototype chain.
I'm gonna go, do do do do do do do,
up to the next object in the chain, and
ask to see if it has
a constructor property on it.
Does it?
>> Kyle: And where does it point?
Foo, so we get the outcome
that a1.constructor is foo.
Sure seems to be like we're suggesting
that a1 was constructed by foo, right?
That's only a happy accident, but
we're trying to convince people, hey,
this is a class system and this thing
was constructed by this other thing.
If you squint at it and
you don't ask any questions, you might
be able to convince yourself of that.
But if you start asking
some critical questions,
you will find out very quickly that
that whole house of cards falls apart.
So it's only a happy accident that
a1.constructor points to foo.
We'll see that fall apart
here in a few slides.